1.1 Choose your unique focus
What should I write about? What topic am I good at writing about? What do people on Medium like reading about?

These are the first questions you should think about before you get serious about your blog or business. Because if you don’t pinpoint what you’re most passionate about, no one will know what you’re good at. From that point, everything falls apart.

What you want is recognition for your strengths and knowledge. You want the whole world to know that your words are 100x more credible than the average Joe. How do I show that? Share the one thing you have most experience in!

If you’re a teacher, write about the secret to getting students to listen to you.
If you’re a gym enthusiast, write about things that inspire you to workout.
If you’re a startup founder, write about your failures and successes.

People trust and hold high respect for those who’ve spent hundreds, possibly thousands of hours, building their knowledge into one field. Especially Medium readers, where 95% of them are college graduates, and 43% of them earn six figures or more. In that case, it’s better to impress them with your strong points than to share something you’ve heard off the streets.

Have a speciality. Be the authority. That way, people will come to you the next time they’re looking to read about [your speciality].

Note: You can have two, or more unique focuses. But keep in mind that the more you stretch out your focus, the weaker your blog core will be.


After spending months and months observing the top stories of Medium, I’ve pinpointed the subjects people love reading most:

Startups, business marketing, entrepreneurs
Design and development
Career, work-life balance
Love and relationships
Rags-to-riches stories
Inspiration
Productivity hacks
Life lessons
Emotional, heart-felt stories
Misfortunes (cancer, death, any serious illness)
Modern technology
Controversial topics (politics, racism)

 You need to find your ‘hook.’ You need to create work that’s so compelling or so entertaining that people choose you over somebody else.

At the same time, you also have to be curious about who these people are. Who are they? What are their interests? What are their goals? Would they be willing to buy something you’re trying to sell? Would they do you favors with no expectations back?

## Build your Brand
It’s even harder today, because with 1,200+ blogs being pushed out on Medium everyday, it takes 200% more work to be on top. That means:

Having a unique profile
Having a consistent, eye-catching design through your blog posts
Having a strong brand voice

Unique profile

This is the one place where you can describe who you truly are, or brag about your titles and achievements.

Keep in mind there’s a 160-character limit for the bio. In that case, make every word count. My suggestion: create a list of keywords that best describe you and what you do.

Here’s mine: marketer, millennial, Rabbut, empower, bloggers, 45mph (my publication).

Then write a couple variations of your bio until you find the one that sounds the most powerful, intriguing, and authentic.

A word of advice: Make sure your bio is consistent with your social media, like Twitter and Facebook. This will get people to remember you better.

Add your business link

Your bio is also the perfect spot to drive curious passersby to your blog or business. Just add your business URL — it’ll automatically be hyperlinked after editing.

Add other links

If you can add your business link, why not include others?

Your blog
Your publication on Medium
Your 2nd, 3rd business
Your About.Me page

The options are endless!

Consistent, eye-catching design in every post

Every post you write must follow the same visual layout. It’s not to make it easier for people to read. It’s to strengthen your brand identity with every post. As long as you keep it consistent, people will eventually get your style.

Header image

Header images are more than just a display. They are the first impression of your entire work.

With that in mind, find an image that goes hand-in-hand with your headline. It should capture people’s attention for at least 5 seconds, arouse their curiosity, but most importantly, get them to scroll down to the good stuff: your content.

Articles with images get 94% more views than those without.
~NewsCred

Take it from Michael Chen, who presents very pleasing header images by unifying the font colors and layout.

MichaelChen_header_images
Michael Chen’s header images carry a very strong brand identity (https://medium.com/@mnchen)
Content: The meat of your article

Nowadays, people are quick readers — which is good if your content is well-laid out. But if it’s messy to the point where it strains their eyes, don’t expect them to read the rest of your blog.

Break your content down into digestible sections using a clear heading. If you have a quote or a key takeaway, blow it up in the center with a bigger font. If you have a bunch of ideas or examples, use a bulleted or numbered list. You want to make people’s reading experience as pleasing as possible. That way, you can be their favorite writer.

Of course, you should always add a small “author’s bio” at the bottom of your post, with a link to your site or social profile. This will give people a better idea of who you are.

One of my favorite writers, Jeff Goins, does an incredible job keeping his articles consistent:

Why Quitting Your Job to Chase Your Dream is a Terrible Idea
The Unfair Truth About How Creative People Really Succeed
The Art of Making Good Decisions
Strong brand voice

Last but not least, you need a voice — an unforgettable one. And that’s hard to find for most writers, because at this time of age, school has dictated how we should sound. How we should structure our sentences. How we should present our logic. How long our paragraphs should be. Eventually, we start becoming less like us, and more like everybody else.

Stop. Don’t write an essay. Write how you talk. That means expressing your feelings, your thoughts, your opinions, your experience along with the message you want to highlight in your post.

This is the secret to making a mediocre blog go beyond extraordinary. Because when you have a voice, people will still read your post even you use the most generic titles. After all, they know what to expect from you.

So be authentic. Genuine. Personal.

Not surprisingly, the reoccurring patterns of what makes some Medium posts more popular than the other are divided up into the following:

1) Post Ideas 2) Headline 3) Content Presentation

Knowing the underlying reasons why people share, can give us an edge to come up with a highly shareable blog idea. The goal for us in Medium marketing is to create content that gets people to take note of our brand existence. Because we know that remarkable content gets shared on social media, raising brand and product awareness. That’s what we are aiming at when coming up with a blog topic to write.

Will my blog idea fly?

When coming up with blog ideas to write on Medium ask yourself this:

Does sharing your content online make me look good?
Is it an interesting or helpful topic that will generate word of mouth?

#### Your Title
Let’s start off with what the title ought to be. It’s a condensed version of what your content is about; you show off just enough information but not too much that it turns into a TL;DR.

You need to identity which trigger words will tug at the readers’ emotions. Be it anger, excitement, awe or amusement.

A great place to find an inspiration for trigger words is to subscribe to a publication and a newsletter that have headlines that trigger you to click them. Tease out the words that made you click after reading the headline. Then compile those words in a list form for your future headline crafting inspiration.

So you think you have a killer headline? Ask yourself this:  Will you share this post on your social media based on reading the title alone?

#### Attempt 2 Tips on Writing Head-Turning Titles

Better. I painted the outcome of what you’re looking for once you finished reading this helpful post. But it still lacks the oomph.

Attempt Three:

37 Unheard of Tips on Writing a Head-Turning Title.

I started off with 37, because it shows the prospects of the numbers takeaways that they will get by the end of the post. When choosing a number for your headline, Gilad Lotan, a data analyst who culled BuzzFeed titles, suggested that an odd numbered listicle performs better than an even numbered listicle.

I observed a statistically significant difference in the performance of odd-length BuzzFeed listicles versus even ones.

Unheard of is a play with the human’s fear of missing out. Use a trigger word that indicates that the general population didn’t know about this, but if you read on you will be one of the first to know about these tips.

All in all, weed out flabby, filler words to make the title tight and condense so the reader knows exactly what they can expect and want to find out more about it. Rinse and repeat the process until you think your headline is up to snuff to be shared on social media.

#### Layout
When it comes to content layout on Medium, there’re a few rules that you can go by to create  frictionless experiences for your viewers.

The power of spacing is remarkable. How a seemingly small thing can change the course of the reader’s experience.  The only distinction between exhibit A and exhibit B is that I hit the spacebar a few times. So when it comes to long content, break it up for readers in digestible blocks so they can process them before moving on to the next section. Giving space in between sentences provides rest to the readers’ eyes as our brain processes every 7-9 letters that we read.

A great starting point when crafting subtitles is to look at your draft outline. This will give you a clear focus on the 5-7 words that will capture the essence of the paragraph.

### Bring in the Images as Break Points

the average human attention span is approximately 5 minutes

But with the use of images, you can draw your readers’ attention back to your piece. Similar to the use of the spacebar, images make good break points for long posts.  (note: insert free photos post)

Seemingly Small Things Matter

Beyond the content creation, the way in which the content is presented will affect how people feel when reading your piece. Do you want an eye-squinting experience or a BOOM experience for your readers? You decide.